WOMEN’S STUDIES: HOW IT BEGAN, WHAT IT CURRENTLY IS AND EDUCATORS’ HOPES FOR THE FUTURE

Editor's note: This story has been changed to more accurately reflect the current status of the women's studies program as being a minor.
When you hear the term “women’s studies,” you probably only think about feminism, but it’s much more than that.
The educators of the Women’s Studies Program have great ambitions and goals for the future of this program as its meaning and impact will continue to grow and develop.
The Director of the Women's Studies Program, Carolina Rocha, shows appreciation for where their journey began and said she welcomes the growth of the Women’s Studies Program.
“When I started reading about who my predecessors were … It was female faculty in the ‘90s who were a minority, and they used to have potluck dinners to celebrate each other's accomplishments,” Rocha said.
The Women’s Studies Program is not a major like many may believe, nor is it an official department. However, Rocha is hopeful that in the future, the minor can become a major. For that to happen, they’ll need more funding and faculty to teach more classes.
“I see the potential for this because the classes are already there,” Rocha said. “The Women’s Studies Program only has one class. The other classes are electives and are classes that are cross-listed with other departments.”
Rocha said they wanted to keep up the tradition of celebrating each other’s accomplishments.
“I interact with faculty from different departments,” Rocha said. “That has truly been an enrichment process for me. That's what I value and that's what I would like to give back to the students.”
Rocha said that most of the cross-listed classes are in English, sociology and philosophy, but there are classes in political science and general and applied communications.
Women’s Studies really covers gender studies as a whole, according to Rocha. It has become the study of gender presentation, sexuality and more.
“I think when Women’s Studies was formed in the 1990s, it was women's studies,” Rocha said. “But for instance, right now we talk and we know more about gender issues. So, perhaps having a minor like we have right now where we can also have gender classes … It's not just women's studies, but sexuality and different kinds of gender roles.”
It is important to Rocha to serve and accommodate all students and faculty.
“We have the classes, but we are here to serve,” Rocha said. “So if [there are] suggestions for improvements, I am very open to listen and to try to accommodate those suggestions … It is important because it allows me to help the next generation of women who are going to come into the workforce.”
Professor of English Language and Literature Anushiya Ramaswamy is one of the professors teaching for this program. She expressed her desires for the future of the Women’s Studies program.
“I would like it to be ‘gender studies’ rather than women's studies,” Ramaswamy said. “I would like it to be more mainstream … I would like to see a lot more resources or a lot more conversation about gender studies being kind of prioritized.”
If the minor does become a major, Ramaswamy said that she would like to see a name change.
“I find the term ‘women studies’ itself kind of politically problematic because there is a lot of work right now done in gender that would question the binary,” Ramaswamy said. “So, the minute you say ‘women studies,’ it's kind of very old-fashioned. I think I would like to have something that is much more inclusive as a title, if we are looking at a department — a gender studies department, maybe.”
Ramaswamy said that she teaches her classes in a way that covers all the topics related to gender, not just focusing on the “women's” side of the minor.
“In my classes, I kind of design around talking about intersectionality — not only speaking about gender, but with it comes race and with it comes class,” Ramaswamy said.
Alison Reiheld, a professor of philosophy, explained that she could not do her current line of work without the knowledge from studying gender.
“I do work in medical ethics, and a lot of the things that I work on, gender touches on, and some of those I work on because I'm interested in gender,” Reiheld said. “I actually didn't think when I started doing medical ethics 25 years ago that I was going to be doing as much feminist theory in my medical ethics work as I did.”
“I get more into medical ethics,” Reiheld said. “I kept finding that the tools that I had from my own women’s studies and feminist philosophy coursework in graduate school kept being relevant … I realized that I couldn't do medical ethics responsibly without gender studies tools.”
Reiheld said that women’s studies make a big difference in her career and that it helps her in many different ways, including bettering her ability to be there for her students.
“What women's studies means to me is that it gives me tools to do the other parts of my job that aren't even technically about women's studies at all,” Reiheld said. “It also allows me to support students better because students have different needs, and sometimes their needs are shaped by gender and the way society responds to their gender.”
