COST-FRIENDLY COLLEGE DATES FOR VALENTINE’S DAY

Want to do something nice with your significant other but also have to pay tuition? Here are some easy, local and inexpensive date ideas for the perfect Valentine's date.
Cheap Movie Tuesdays
Marcus Theatres in O’Fallon has a $5 movie every Tuesday, where all tickets for every movie that day are $5. If you’re looking for a cheap movie option for a film that is only in theaters, this is a good choice. If O’Fallon is too far of a drive, the Wildey Theatre in Edwardsville has $3 movies every Tuesday.
Tubi and Taking It Easy
However, if you are not looking to go to the movie theater or are looking for a comfortable online viewing experience, free services like Tubi and SIUE's Kanopy make for a lazy cuddle date where you can lay back and relax with your significant other. If you’d prefer, these free streaming services also take a more affordable approach to “Netflix and chill.”
Museum Dates for Dark Academics
If laying in bed is too low-key for your tastes, a trip to either the Art Museum or the Contemporary Art Museum in St. Louis provides a free alternative (save for gas). Museums are a wonderful way for you to spark meaningful and intellectual conversations with your date.
Nerd Out Over Your Date at the St. Louis Science Center
If you’re more interested in science than art, the St. Louis Science Center allows you (or your date) to show off your smarts and hopefully impress. Just make sure you account for any of their paid exhibits, such as the current ECLIPSE exhibit in the planetarium. The exhibit has $7 tickets and comes with safety glasses that you can use for the upcoming total solar eclipse on April 8.
Indoor Picnic in Your Dorm
If you’re short on transportation and would rather not sit in a crowded restaurant, an indoor (or outdoor) picnic with MUC-gathered supplies works just fine. Throw down a nice blanket and use your residential meal plan (or Cougar Bucks) to purchase snacks of your choice with a decent discount. While you may be limited in choices, atmosphere is the key here. As long as you clean your room and make an obvious effort to do something nice, your date should appreciate it.
Creating Competition with Cake
If you appreciate creativity but don’t have gas money, a cake-decorating contest allows you to show off your decorating creativity. Box mix along with all the needed supplies can be bought in Union Station in the MUC. Cakes are easy to make and cheap to buy, and a tasty dessert to share!
Cold Stone Staring
With many local ice cream shops in Edwardsville, tasty dessert options are always just around the corner. Check out our past MEE columns for nearby places reviewed by us. Some businesses not only have a student discount, but they still have cheap options.
Thoughtful Thrifting
Another fun twist to a common date idea is to go thrifting for your partner’s outfit and go out to dinner. With your significant other wearing the outfit of your choice, you can have a date at a restaurant that is full of jokes and conversations about fashion.
Painting for Two
If you can't afford a dinner for two, there’s always the option to buy a few cheap canvases at Walmart and paint together. If you don’t want to do a whole painting yourself, you can have one color and switch canvases every 10 minutes. The results will be two collaborative pieces that you and your lover can keep and display.
Art is Always in Bloom
While the weather is cold and flowers aren’t blooming, the art in the SIUE Gardens is still up and vibrant. Take your partner on a delightful walk through the Gardens and show them sculptures that you can debate and contemplate the meaning of as you take a stroll in the February sun. If you don’t want to walk outside or don’t have a means of getting to the SIUE Gardens, a walk through the Art and Design buildings is also an option.
