NEW ORGANIZATION STRIVES TO BRING TOGETHER AND SUPPORT CHRONICALLY ILL STUDENTS

After noticing a need for community and support amongst fellow SIUE students who have experiences with chronic illnesses, sophomore mass communications major Winter Racine and junior mass communications major Leah Foster came together to form the new organization Chronic Connection.
Racine is the current president of Chronic Connection, and Foster is the vice president. Both Racine and Foster are also senators for students with disabilities in Student Government. They are both active in New Horizons, with Racine being the vice president of the organization.
Racine said the idea of a support group for students with chronic illnesses originated when Chronic Connection’s advisor, Leighann Fuller, noticed a number of students struggling and falling behind in school.
Foster said she also sees chronically ill students dropping out or struggling in school due to lack of support. She said Chronic Connection wants to do as much as they can to prevent this from happening.
“New Horizons specifically targets disabled people,” Racine said. “We’ve noticed that a lot of people who are disabled consider themselves chronically ill, but in my experience a lot of people who are chronically ill aren’t always comfortable calling themselves disabled.”
Racine said the idea for Chronic Connection was to reach a wider audience, specifically targeting those with chronic illnesses. However, she also said one of Chronic Connection’s goals is to be as inclusive as possible.
“This isn’t just for those with a chronic illness,” Racine said. “It’s also for those who love someone with a chronic illness, it’s for people who experience chronic illness on a personal level every day — [whether it’s their own body or not.]”
Racine said Chronic Connection’s goal is to connect people with similar experiences and create a space where members can be open about their struggles. She said Chronic Connection wants to help people find their voice.
“I think you're most empowered when you are with people who relate to what you're going through,” Racine said. “We want to be that space.”
Foster said the group will be hosting bonding events for members of the organization.
“It’s a matter of support and making sure that the people who are facing chronic illnesses are reassured that they’re not alone,” Foster said.
Foster said support is the basis of what Chronic Connection wants to accomplish, as those with chronic illnesses can often feel alone. She said community is very important to those with chronic illnesses and disabilities as a whole.
“Chronic illness can be very lonely — you feel like you’re the only one in the world dealing with these issues and people aren’t believing you,” Foster said. “But, whenever you’re around people with chronic illnesses, it’s kind of like a sense of, ‘Oh, I’m not alone in this and there’s someone out there going through the exact same thing as me.’”
Racine said Chronic Connection will hold events both online and virtually, as it can be challenging for those with chronic illnesses to meet.
“Meeting up with chronically ill people can be difficult because we all have illnesses that prohibit us from leaving the house sometimes and it’s often very unexpected,” Racine said.
Racine said the group identifies with Christine Miserandino’s spoon theory. According to Chronic Connection’s Instagram, the spoon theory “explains life with a chronic illness by using ‘spoons’ as units of energy.”
“Those with chronic conditions often call themselves ‘spoonies,’” the post said. “We decided to embrace this identity in our logo as many of us resonate with the theory, using it to explain how our condition affects us.”
The post said that healthy individuals may have more “spoons” than those with chronic illnesses. Each task throughout the day can deplete these “spoons.”
“The impact of energy levels varies individually; what deducts two spoons for one person might deduct three for another with the same chronic illness,” the Instagram post reads.
Racine said the organization will be holding “bonding events” rather than meetings. She said some of the in-person bonding events can include ice cream socials, Kahoot! nights or board game nights.
“We’re trying to be very meticulous about the way we do that so that it’s not just ‘You have to come to campus at 6:00 at night,’” Racine said. “Because for some people that's just not accessible … There’s some things that need to be done in-person and a lot of things that don’t need to be done in-person.”
Freshman biological sciences major Brynna Allen said she looks forward to making new friends who have had similar life experiences as her.
“When you have chronic illnesses, it’s hard for able-bodied people to understand some of those struggles in a regular friendship,” Allen said. “A lot of people get really frustrated with not being able to be present and hang out because chronic illness is so unpredictable.”
Allen said it is comforting to her to communicate with people who have had experiences with doctor’s visits, issues with professors and navigating college, while also suffering from chronic illnesses.
Allen said she hopes Chronic Connection can advocate for accessibility on SIUE’s campus, no matter what someone’s issue may be.
Racine said one of the organization’s bonding events will include making signs to remind people on campus to be gentle with the handicapped doors.
“We’re bringing everyone together so that we can create awareness,” Racine said. “So people can advocate for their own chronic illnesses and their own disabilities, but also as a whole and as a collective.”
Allen said an issue she has come across while at SIUE is the lack of education for professors and instructors regarding students who are chronically ill. She said oftentimes professors are not aware of what they can legally ask for from students.
“I’ve had a handful of professors ask me for doctor’s notes,” Allen said. “I asked ACCESS and they said [professors] can’t legally ask me for documentation.”
Allen said she knows SIUE has many professors, but an email or newsletter sent out every once in a while could help educate those who interact with students daily.
Racine said she believes SIUE meets the bare minimum of accessibility for students with disabilities and chronic illnesses, but the university does not go above and beyond to listen to their students.
“My goal for this group is to show the university that there are so many chronically ill and disabled students — we are not scarce, we’re here,” Racine said. “There’s a lot of us and you can't look at us and assume we are not disabled or chronically ill. Most of us look fine, but the reality is that we’re not.”
Foster said SIUE needs to improve in the aspect of making people feel like they’re a worthy part of campus.
“We deserve to have the same experience as other students,” Racine said. “I think that if your students cannot safely get to their classrooms because of the elevators and the sidewalks, then how can you expect them to walk the stage at graduation?”
Racine said before the application was submitted for a petitioning organization, 15 people had already expressed interest in the group. Now, even with minimal marketing, Racine said Chronic Connection now has 25 members.
“I think with the opportunities we’ll have in the upcoming semesters to market ourselves, we’ll be a very successful organization,” Racine said.
For those interested in joining Chronic Connection, check out their Instagram or GetInvolved pages.
