HELP ALLEVIATE SYMPTOMS OF SEASONAL DEPRESSION WITH THESE TIPS

Sometimes life gets hard and things get in the way, especially during the colder months of the year with seasonal depression afoot.
Seasonal depression is a form of depression that occurs during the winter season. It is thought to be related to the change in daylight. Here are a few tips to lessen the burden of seasonal depression.
Make a schedule
Feeling in control often helps ease anxiety. It also helps improve sleep, which can alleviate the symptoms of seasonal depression.
Get sunlight
Go outside. If it’s too cold, let the sunshine inch into your home. One reason this helps is because of its aid in helping regulate circadian rhythm. Another reason is that it provides vitamin D, which does seem to have some kind of relation with depression. Of course, you can take supplements, but there is a chance of poisoning from vitamin D toxicity. That is only in really high doses, though.
Exercise
Excercise and moving helps stave off many forms of depression. Even if it is cold outside, you can try going to the student fitness center or just follow along with YouTube videos in your own room. It takes your mind off of problems and you can get out of the cycle of thinking of negative thoughts. It also releases endorphins, which reduce pain and stress.
Talk to people you care about
Talking to people you know can help reduce depression. It helps you feel less lonely. It is easy to stay indoors when it is cold and miserable outside, but that just won’t help. Try to call family or friends or play games over Discord. Being isolated from others does have a negative impact on people. Not only can it increase depression and stress, but also a number of other health problems. It is important to have people you can talk to and hang out with.
Journaling
Journaling can help you understand yourself more. Whether you use it as an outlet for your emotions or to track what’s going on in your personal life, it allows you to write it all out. It has been found to help you understand yourself.
Therapy
Therapy is important. This article might be able to give you tips and help alleviate some of your issues, but it might not solve your problems. If there are underlying problems, this article won’t find them. SIUE has an on campus center for counseling and other great services for any students in need. Visit the counseling services here at SIUE for more help or check out their website for more information. Who knows, you might discover something new here.
