FROM UNDERGROUND TRANSLATOR TO BEING WORLD-RENOWNED FOR HER WORK, PROFESSOR BRINGS LOVE OF LANGUAGE TO SIUE

Olga Bezhanova, a Spanish professor at SIUE, evolved from being an illegal multilingual translator in Ukraine to earning recognition as a distinguished researcher and educator.
Bezhanova was born and raised in Ukraine during the Soviet Union’s regime, and during that time, it was heavily frowned upon to learn different languages.
“Every effort was made to prevent people from learning other languages so that we wouldn’t communicate with anybody from behind the ‘iron curtain’ [political boundary dividing Europe] and find out what was actually happening in the world,” Bezhanova said.
Bezhanova’s father was a professional linguist and translator who taught her and her sister how to speak Russian and English at a young age.
“He believed, always, that the USSR would collapse and we would come in contact with other countries,”said Bezhanova. “He made it his life's work to teach me and my sister to speak other languages.”
Although Bezhanova’s father was denounced by the KGB, the Soviet Union’s main security agency, for teaching English to Bezhanova and her sister, he insisted that they continue to read, write and speak in English.
Her father's ultimate goal was to empower his children through acquiring different languages so that they could make a potential career out of it.
Bezhanova was only 14 years old when she translated her first book in 1990 from English into Russian about martial arts, with limited resources available in translating.
“There was, of course, no dictionary because it was not legal to [practice martial arts], so I had to invent pretty much the whole vocabulary of martial arts,” Bezhanova said.
During her teenage years, Bezhanova said she would often get paid in U.S. currency to translate work, which was punishable with jail time under the ruling of the USSR.
According to Bezhanova, college students in Ukraine weren’t allowed to work at the time.
“I worked as a translator pretty intensely while I was a student, but it was illegal,” Bezhanova said. "And I was always in danger of being discovered, that I was committing this huge crime of working as a translator.”
“When the USSR finally fell apart in 1991, that was a moment when we could start thinking about learning about different cultures,” Bezhanova said. “Eventually, I developed a great interest in the Hispanic culture, but there was no place at that time in Ukraine to learn Spanish or anything that had to do with Hispanic culture.”
Bezhanova described her journey in learning Spanish and Hispanic culture as a “quest” that she was eager to take on.
In 1998, Bezhanova and her family left Ukraine and moved to Canada, where she received her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Hispanic Studies from McGill University.
She later moved to the United States to pursue her doctorate at Yale University through the Department of Spanish and Portuguese.
In August 2009, Bezhanova joined SIUE as an associate Spanish professor and currently holds the position as the chair of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literature.
“When I came to SIUE, I thought I’d only be staying at SIUE for about a year,” Bezhanova said. “But then, when I started teaching, within the first two weeks I knew that I would stay because I absolutely loved the students.”
Bezhanova said throughout her time at SIUE, she found joy in being able to engage with students and connect with them as individuals.
“When I realized that I really feel [connected] with the students at SIUE, I completely lost any desire to leave and look for anything else. And I have been here ever since,” said Bezhanova.
Bezhanova stopped translating when she first came to SIUE, but started freelancing again to understand how the world of translation has transformed. She said that she wants to teach students relevant and up-to-date information to bring to the classroom.
Andrea Bowlin, a junior Spanish major said, “I think that Olga is a phenomenal teacher … I really wish I could’ve experienced her earlier in my college career for my major because of how much I’ve learned.”
Bezhanova is not only an educator, but also a highly recognized research scholar around the world.
Bezhanova’s book publications have received recognition from different countries, such as Ukraine and Canada. According to International Relations Lecture Series, Bezhanova’s scholarly articles have also appeared in journals in several countries, such as Spain, the United Kingdom, Costa Rica and Germany.
Currently, Bezhanova is working on finalizing one of the first textbooks of Contemporary Spanish Literature for Ukranians,which is expected to be published in April 2024.
