OLIVIA’S CORNER: MY FAVORITE PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO HAVE INFLUENCED POP CULTURE

In a flip phone video from 2007, when I was four, I am heard in the background saying, "Can I take a picture? Can I take a picture?" Little did everyone know, that was the beginning of the end!
With that being said, as a life-long amateur photographer and lover of 2000’s pop culture, I have to give props to some of my favorite photographers from that era! 
David LaChapelle
LaChapelle’s pop-surrealistic work pushes social boundaries, radiating vibrancy and glamor. His artistry is unparalleled, truly setting him apart in the industry. No one does it quite at the level LaChapelle does. The first time I saw LaChapelle’s work, I was captivated by his conceptual imagery and instantly became a fan of his celebrity portraits.
Phil Knott
Widely recognized for his authentic portraits of musicians, Knott’s work is not only striking but deeply rich and raw, capturing the true essence of his subjects. His images almost offer a glimpse into the souls of those he photographs.
Alison Jackson
Jackson is renowned for her iconic lookalike photographs of celebrities. She skillfully manipulates her subjects into scenarios that often deceive the public, creating images that appear startlingly real due to their paparazzi or documentary style. Her work delves into society's fascination with celebrity culture.
Steven Klein
Klein’s work is often provocative and known for its theatrical, unique qualities that incorporate high fashion. Many of his shoots also feature elements of the macabre, ​such as the use of dark lighting or gruesome depictions. His daring approach to photography challenges conventions and norms.
Petra Collins
Not exactly a photographer from the 2000’s, but rather the 2010s, much of Collins’ work is heavily influenced by nostalgia, coming of age and the Y2K aesthetic. Her pastel, dreamlike, fantasy style is reminiscent of “Girl Culture” by Lauren Greenfield (another personal favorite of mine) or a Sofia Coppola film. Instead of shooting digitally, Collins shoots in 35mm film. Her photographs are very personal and intimate, contributing to current-day pop culture.
Markus Klinko
Klinko is well-known for defining 2000’s pop culture with many of his images. He uses various techniques and a wide range of aesthetics, depending on his subject, making him very adaptable. Like many of the artists on this list, his portfolio is extremely high-profile and culturally significant.
Mark Hunter “The Cobrasnake”
Ruling and encapsulating the indie sleaze party scene as one of the most popular nightlife photographers in the 2000’s, Hunter’s photos are bold and spontaneous. They exude a carefree, lively energy that makes you, as a viewer, feel like you’re in the moment too.
I have been a fan of Hunter for several years, and his book, “The Cobrasnake: Y2Ks Archive,” was my first photography book. I purchased it the second it hit shelves.
An image from Schoeller is almost immediately recognizable due to his distinctive close-up style and level of sharpness. This "in your face" nature of his work reveals every physical feature and innermost emotion of his subjects. Schoeller’s photographs are deeply human and truly genuine.
Additional favorite photographers: Annie Leibovitz, Mark Seliger, Terrence O’Connor, William Eggleston, Jean-Baptiste Mondino, Robert Sebree.
