HOW DIFFERENT CULTURES CELEBRATE THE SPRING EQUINOX

Spring is here and millions of people around the world are celebrating the vernal equinox.
An equinox is a 24-hour period with a day and night of equal length. This happens twice every year: once in late March, and once in late September. Due to the Earth’s axial tilt, the northern and southern hemispheres typically point in opposite directions, which is why Christmas is in summer in Australia.
On the spring and fall equinoxes, however, the Earth’s axis is perpendicular to the direct light of the sun, meaning day and night are an equal length. This heralds the season of spring in the northern hemisphere as it begins to point towards the sun and days get longer and warmer.
Civilizations have been well aware of the Earth’s position in relation to the sun for thousands of years. While the vernal equinox isn’t that significant for the average American, millions of people in the past and present set the day aside as one for celebration as a new spring begins.
The Persian New Year, also called Nowruz, falls on the vernal equinox and has been celebrated for around 3,000 years, according to the United Nations.
“It promotes values of peace and solidarity between generations and within families as well as reconciliation and neighborliness, thus contributing to cultural diversity and friendship among peoples and different communities,” the U.N. website says.
According to an article by Al Jazeera, one of the most important rituals in celebrating Nowruz is the Haft-Sin table. On this table are laid seven objects that start with the “s” sound in the Persian language, including garlic, apples and berries, each with a symbolic meaning.
Those who celebrate Nowruz may also conduct rituals involving fire, indicative of the holiday’s roots in the Zoroastrian religion. In Zoroastrianism, fire is a purifying force, and some Nowruz celebrations include jumping over flames to cleanse the self of bad things from the previous year.
As the year 1402 comes to a close and the new year dawns for those who celebrate Nowruz, be sure to wish them a happy and prosperous 1403!
In Japan, the vernal equinox is celebrated as Shunbun no Hi, “a day to commune with nature and to show our affection for all living things,” according to Web Japan. The equinox falls in the middle of a seven-day period called “higan,” a time when families remember their forebears and tend to their ancestors’ graves.
Japan’s iconic cherry blossoms also begin to bloom around this time.
Even Neolithic people may have celebrated the equinox. According to English Heritage, Neolithic people in Great Britain began building Stonehenge roughly 5,000 years ago. While it is unknown if the site was used to celebrate the vernal equinox specifically, the giant structure aligns with the sun on the summer and winter solstices. Some have theorized that Stonehenge’s purpose was as a giant calendar, and many modern druids (Celtic neo-pagans) travel to the site as part of a pilgrimage for the vernal equinox.
It’s important to know how others celebrate the equinox, as it leads to a greater understanding of their culture and the person themselves. For those who celebrate, be safe and have a happy equinox!
