HEADPHONE JACK: A PLAYLIST YOU SHOULD NOT PLAY DURING SEX

In the heat of the moment, it’s important to keep the vibes going. The best intended sexy playlists can go off the rails with the wrong song added. Let this list be a cautionary tale when making your sexy, fun time playlist.
'Crank That (Soulja Boy),’ Soulja Boy
Let's rewind to the 2000s with the dance classic by the viral sensation, soulja boy. the infectious beat will have you moving, and you won't be able to resist doing anything but crank that!
'Glimpse of Us,' Joji
Want you or your partner to be thinking of their ex in the heat of the moment? This song will surely do it! Joji delivers a soulful ballad of being reminded of a past lover every time he looks at his partner. Your partner looking at you and thinking of someone else, nothing more romantic than that!
'Kiss from a Rose,' Seal
“Kiss from a Rose”, is a powerful vocal performance, with ominous lyrics, to describe a passionate love. With iconic lines, “My power, my pleasure, my pain.”
'We Didn't Start the Fire,' Billy Joel
Hit song by Billy Joel, “We Didn't Start the Fire” is an upbeat pop song detailing all major events from the year 1949 to 1989, the year Billy Joel turned 40.This song is the perfect way for you and your partner to learn about each other's bodies and 40 years of history all at the same time.
‘Stan,’ Eminem, Dido
This is not just a song but a story about a crazed fan of Eminem. In frustration of rapstar Eminem not returning his fan mail, an unnamed fan referred to as “Stan” gets drunk,drives off a bridge with his girlfriend in the trunk. This is the perfect song to ruin the mood, while Dido delivers haunting vocals for the chorus, the lyrics and storytelling are still chilling.
‘Big Foot,’ Nicki Minaj
Rapper Nicki Minaj has issues with another female rapper Megan Thee Stallion resulting in Minaj releasing “Big Foot”, a diss track titled because of the old news of Megan Thee Stallion getting shot in the foot by fellow rapper Tory Lanez. Not only is this track almost unbearable to sit through, but in the last minute Minaj cuts the beat and goes on a tirade threatening Megan.
‘Murder on My Mind,’ YNW Melly
Rapper YNW Melly released Murder on My Mind in 2018, only to be charged with two counts of murder in the following year.
‘Facts,’ Tom MacDonald, Ben Shapiro
Political discussions always set the mood. If listening to a Ben Shapiro podcast episode is not enough, you can follow it with a newly released rap song by Shapiro with bars like,“ My comment section all woke Karens.”
‘I Don’t F—- With You,’ Big Sean, E-40
This song is perfect for a hookup—or getting back with an ex, to really set the tone of your feelings. Big Sean delivers an upbeat, angry rap detailing his overall disdain for his ex-girlfriend Naya Rivera.
‘Cbat,’ Hudson Mohawke
A jaunty club song that does not fit the vibe for anything, especially sex. An anonymous user on the social platform Reddit expressed his adoration for “Cbat” during his spicy time, only to be met with internet backlash and a number of hilarious replies.
‘Crazy Rap (Colt 45 & 2 Zig Zags),’ Afroman
An upbeat retelling of wild, intoxicated stories from comedian rapper Afroman, this song has a catchy rhyming scheme and hilarious lyrics. I would not suggest this in any sexual setting.
‘All Time Low,’ Jon Bellion
This is another song for a hookup, to remind yourself that you are indeed at rock bottom.
This song is a very theatrical performance portraying Bellion's mood. This pop hit describes the worst part of break ups when you begin to relive all the mistakes and wish you could go back and change things.
‘Dance Monkey,’ Kidz Bop
Kidz Bop, which was created in 2001, takes modern pop songs and creates a clean version sung by the Kidz Bop Kids group. Dance Monkey, created by Tones And I, was a pop hit in 2019. Online, this song became a meme for being incredibly annoying. The Kidz Bop version enhances just how terrible this song is by making it worse.
‘Wait for It,’ Leslie Odom Jr. and the Original Broadway Cast of Hamilton
Leslie Odom Jr.'s powerful voice makes him an absolute highlight to the Hamilton musical. Occurring in the first act this song evokes the feeling of being left behind while everyone else reaches their goals.
