THE CAGE OFFERS PROFESSIONAL-GRADE ART SUPPLIES FOR STUDENTS

Located in Art and Design East, The Cage is “dedicated to serving the needs of artists within the SIUE community,” according to its webpage.
The Cage is a full-service facility that supports the art and design program by providing convenient access to essential, professional-grade art supplies for students.
“Michaels carries more hobby craft supplies, and they don't have a very high stock of high-quality materials,” Ella Ackman, a junior art major, said. “So, it's what makes The Cage nice.”
The Cage isn’t set up like a typical hobby craft store, which may cause problems for those who aren’t sure what they are looking for. The Cage consists of a large, warehouse-like room behind the walls with a single service window at the front. You cannot actually go in, nor can you see much beyond the window in the wall.
“Occasionally, they'll let you in and go see, but generally you go to the window [and] you tell them what you need,” Ackman said. “Go with a plan in mind … There's really no way to browse.”
Senior art major Addison Drone said that experience aids with knowledge of supplies.
“Coming into art school, I didn't know a lot of these materials existed, so I wouldn't have even really known to ask for them if I went there,” Drone said. "It's kind of something that you find over time — you get some experience of what you're looking for.”
Drone said The Cage offers these professional-grade products for the same price or even cheaper. In addition to these already reasonable prices, The Cage often offers discounts on frequently bought products such as pencils.
“I have done a lot of price comparisons on paper,” Drone said. “Our paper is about the same as a big art store, like Blick. And if you're going just for paper, think of gas and all that stuff. So, in the end, I always just really go through The Cage … I would say it's pretty reasonable if not a better option.”
The Cage is currently accepting card-only payments, which includes Cougar Bucks.
Although The Cage is geared towards art students who may already have prior knowledge of art supplies, Drone said the art department is welcoming and willing to help any students who may need it.
“Going into the art department and going into the building is a super awesome, accepting safe space,” Drone said. “If you have some questions, pop into a classroom, catch a student while you're walking through the hall, and someone can point you in the right direction.”
For more information on The Cage, visit during store hours from 8 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on Mondays through Thursdays and from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Fridays. For further assistance, stop by the Art and Design Admin Office in ADE 1202.
